All right section 3 let's dig into the
challenge.
Are you excited about this? I'm
super excited. Okay Coal Mining let's start
with this question. What are the odds
that you are an expert in coal mining? I
would say probably 0.1%, no actually I
would say 0.01%, that's the chance
that you're an expert coal mining and
yet in this whole section throughout the
section we're going to be talking a lot
about coal mining and we will be
leveraging specific knowledge about coal
mining. So what that will show you is how
important domain knowledge is in the
work of a data scientist or a Tableau
analyst more importantly what you'll see
in this tutorial is how quickly we as
data scientists can develop this domain
knowledge to help us in our engagements
and that combined with your unique
data skills will allow you to
deliver incredible projects for
virtually any industry.
Alright let's jump straight into it, so
here's the challenge and there's lots of
text here but we'll skip all of it. The first
thing that jumps out of the image is of course
millions of dollars and makes it
exciting but we'll skip it for now
because there is a lot of information
here which we just cannot digest we
don't have the domain knowledge to
understand exactly what is being said
and what has been required of us and
also we're going to skip this page as
well. Let's jump into acquiring this
domain knowledge and you'll see how
quickly you can develop it.
Alright so here's Australia and as you
have already gathered I am assuming you
have already gathered I'm from Australia,
I'm from Brisbane this is where I'm
sitting right now as I'm recording this
video and here is the Bowen Basin is
highlighted in red. The Bowen Basin is
one of the biggest coal mining Basins in
the world, it's got lots of different
types of coal and Australian minds that
and exports lots of it to other
countries. Now this is what a Bowen Basin
coal mine looks like, there's like I said
there's lots of different types of coal
and the whole concept is that it is
mined by different companies and
this put onto trains which looks like
this and then this coal is sent off and
these trains they can be huge it can be
up to several kilometers in length and
they can carry all the way up to 10 or
even 12,000 tons of coal in a 1 train.
It's an incredible amount and they're
moving at very high speeds and they're
going and where are they going? Where are
these trains going? Well they're going
towards the ocean they're going towards
the coast, to get into a coal
terminal and then so that the coal will
be loaded onto ships and it will be
shipped off to the purchaser of that
coal. So where are these terminal is located?
Now in a, in the circle here you can see
one of the or several of the coal
terminals that are highlighted now in
this section we're going to be
pretending and I stress we're pretending
that we're working for a coal terminal
called the Dalrymple Bay Coal
Terminal and why I say pretending is
because everything that we're doing is
based on fake data, fake concepts,
it's all made up just for specifically
for our analytics training purposes. This
is just a an example has nothing to do
with the real life and hence, this
disclaimer here at the bottom,
this is a mockup assignment used
exclusively for analytics training
purposes. All data used for this
analysis is fake. There is no affiliation
with DBCT. So just so we're on the same
page.
This is a not real data we're doing this
just for training purposes.
Alright so the coal from the Bowen Basin
which is over here is outlined in this
square. It all,
well, a lot of it goes to this DBCT
Dalrymple Bay Coal Terminal which is located
here near Mackay and I actually was in
Mackay was doing an engagement for a big
client there. Of course there's a
different client but I have been there
and I've seen the Dalrymple Bay
Coal Terminal and this is what it
looks like.
So this is the view you get when you're
flying in a plane from Brisbane to Mackay
or back, magnificent view isn't it?
And so this is the Dalrymple Bay Coal
Terminal and this is where the trains
pull up, well in fact they don't actually
pull up their still moving and while
they're moving they're being unloaded
over here and the coal goes down, these
conveyor belts to this Dockyard over
here where it is stock piled and then
after that it is sent down more conveyor
belts all the way to the jetty where it
is loaded onto ships and then ships go
back to the purchaser of the coal. Now
don't confuse there's another stockyard
over here but this stockyard belongs to
a different coal terminal, so this coal
terminal here is called the Hay Point Coal
Terminal and it belongs to be BMA and BMA stands for BHP Billiton
Mitsubishi Alliance so those 2
companies built their own coal
terminal as you can see they've got
their own carousel here with the trains
unload the coal and then it's got a
stockyard and they've got a Jetty over here
as well, we're going to be pretending
that we're working with the Dalrymple
Bay Coal Terminal not the Hay Point Coal
Terminal.
Alright so what else do we have here?
This is how the coal terminal operates,
so trains come in, they're unloaded and
coal goes down the conveyor belts and
into the stockyard where these machines
as you can see here they stock pile them
and how do they stock pile them?
Well this is how they stock pile them.
Another real image from the DBCT terminal
and what you can see here is lots and
lots of coal that has been stock piled
into these apartments and why do the
machines into stock pile the coal? The
questions,  why can't the coal just be
sent directly to the Jetty? So let's go
back one slide,
sometimes the coal can be sent directly
to you, so you can see that the conveyor
belts can go around the machines and can
go off straight to the Jetty to the
ships but there are two issues first of
all maybe the ship the right ship isn't
there may be the right ship hasn't
arrived yet and the coal shouldn't be at
the Jetty yet there's a different ship
being loaded at the time, the other thing
is that train sometimes might be late so
you want to stock pile the coal in advance
the companies that are sending the coal
using these trains they want to bring
the coal in advance if they can so in
case the train is late
they're not paying
extra cash because these companies have
huge contracts with the ships and every
time, every minute of the ships time
that is standing there and it's delayed
is literally costing hundreds of
thousands of dollars for a minute and
the other thing is that there are
different types of coal so you cannot,
you can sometimes you can't just send
the coal you have to mix it has to be a
blend of a 2, 3 or many different types of
coal and that blending happens at the
Jetty but you need to have that
different those different types of coal
so there are stock piled in their own
piles different types of coal a
stock pile separately and then when the
time comes to mix them they're mixed at
the Jetty. So that is another reason why
you stock pile coals so as you can see
inevitably you're going to have to have
a stockyard and you're going to have to
stock pile coal. So there's a stockyard and
this is what the stockyard looks like
over here and we'll get back to this
image just down the track in a couple of
slide this here what we can see is the
conveyor belt going to the Jetty where
the ships are and this is an actual
photo so as you can see it's an
incredibly long conveyor belt and then
over here there's more machines that
mix the coal. So there's machines here
as you can see these machines they stock pile
the coal and there's more machines
here that mix the coal and make sure
that the coal
consistency is correct that's what the
client ordered and the clients can be
huge companies that can be countries
that can be government and once that
coal is correct
it's loaded onto the ships and then it
sent off. Okay I hope you getting excited
this like I can feel your excitement
through, through the computer and I hope
you can feel mine because this is going
to be an incredible engagement.
Alright so where are we up to, once again
this is the photo and you can see the
ships lined up over there. They're
waiting so this, this place this coal
terminal it operates 24/7 it doesn't
stop there is no public holidays, no
Christmas, no anything,
it works 24/7, 365 days a year,
night, day, no breaks nothing it has to
keep pumping because
the trains are coming, the ships are
waiting, the coal needs to be sent off
and there are, there is so much coal it
cost lots of money every minute that
this place doesn't work it's literally
millions of dollars of revenue that are
being lost off the bottom line of the
company. As you can imagine this is a
very very kind of stressful work and I
really did respect the management
because they have to run this whole
operation and manage both trains and
ships and stockyards and machines it is
just an incredible job that they're
doing so hats off to them and what does
that mean for us? Well that is slowly
leading us into our engagement, this
place works 24/7. So by the way that's
the ships waiting this is an
another actual photo there waiting to
get loaded these ships are massive. They
can carry between anywhere between
20,000 tons and 200,000 tons of
deadweight and deadweight includes all
the cargo, the ballast, all the people,
everything that's on the ship and that's,
that's huge.
So those ships loaded then they're sent
off. Now this place as we said operates
24/7 and they process 85 million tons of
coal per year, I dont know doesn't
probably sound like anything but that is
that is an incredible amount of coal
that is going through here and just
imagine one train is only about 10,000
tons that's and a ship maximum
capacity ship is about 200,000 tons so
this place is processing 85 million tons
of coal per year,
it's incredible. Anyway, so moving on that
what we are going to be talking about is
machines that work at the coal terminal.
We're going to be analyzing machines and
specifically we're going to be talking
about their maintenance and there are
three types of machines. There's this
machine that you see here is called a
stacker, it stacks up the coal into these
pyramids of a coal, then this machine
that you see here is a reclaimer its
uses its buckets while they spin
to reclaim the coal and send it back off
onto the conveyor when that coals
required and then this machine is a
stacker reclaimer, it can do both.
You can see the bucket so it can reclaim
but at the moment where you can see it's
doing is its stacking the coal into a
pyramid.
So it's kind of a two-way machine and
here you can see how the coal is sent
into the machine it's a sent through
this conveyor belt all that's the same
way it goes out when being reclaimed
and this is what the place looks like at
night so as you can imagine these
machines are working 24/7.
The whole place lights up like a
Christmas tree.
Everybody keeps working through the
night and this is how a machine is
working like a real time and look at him
go it is just insane how much power
there is in there and as you can imagine
these machines require maintenance area
they require service, but how are you
going to service them when this whole
place they can't stop they have to keep
working 24/7 because of the
every every minute of downtime is
millions of dollars you can just stop
them to assess whether they require
service, whether they require maintenance,
whether they need an oil change
or whatever they might need.
So how we going to go about that? We're
going to use analytics to find out
whether my machine requires maintenance
and what we what you see here is the all
the machines that are present in this
terminal, so you've got that RL is a
reclaimer there's two reclaim is over
here, then you've got the stackers these
are ST3, ST1, ST4 and then
you've got the rest which are stacker
reclaimer so that the combined machines
SR1, SR2, SR3A, 4A, 5 and 6 and
in this engagement you have been
assigned to analyze only the reclaimers,
so reclaimer 1, reclaimer 2 and any of
the machine stacker reclaim machines
that for the given month were working as
reclaimers so not stackers. You will be
looking at the data to assess
whether a specific machine requires a
maintenance or not and this leads us
back to the actual assignment so that's
how we develop domain knowledge and hope
you're all full of this domain knowledge
now and you
ready to absorb this information. So you
have been hired by Coal Terminal to
assess which of their Coal Reclaimer
machines require maintenance and
upcoming month. These machines run
literally around the clock 24/7 for 365 days
a year. Every minute of downtime equates
to millions of dollars lost revenue, that
is why it is crucial to identify exactly
when these machines require maintenance
neither less or more frequently is
acceptable so you cannot maintain them
more frequently or later the risks
frequently because both eitherly to
downtime or a dangerous situation.
Currently the Coal Terminal follows the
following criterion and by the way this
is all made up they might fall
completely different methodology but
nevertheless this is a very data-driven
approach so it's good for our example. A
reclaimer-type machine requires
maintenance when within the previous
month there was at least one 8-hour
period when the average idle capacity
was over 10%. So might be a  lot to
grasp but hold on to that and let's
power through it.
Let's go to the next page. Idle capacity
is a utilization metric which, for the
purposes of this project, is defined as:
Idle Capacity equals Actual Tonnage
minus Nominal Capacity divided by Nominal
Capacity. Now your task is to find out
which of the five machines have exceeded
this level and create a report for the
executive stakeholders with your
recommendations. So idle capacity is a
bad metric the the greater the idle
capacity the worst meaning the machine
is under utilized so here you can see
that actual tonnage is the utilization
of the Machine and these machines can
process you around like four and a half
thousand tons of coal per hour so if
this is four and a half thousand tons
now this is four-and-a-half tiles and
tons and your actual tonnage for that
our let's say was 3,000 tons, then
difference here is 1 minus 1 and a
half thousand divided by 4 and a half
thousand makes it minus 33%
so that is the idle capacity for
that hour so idle meaning unused
capacity for that our was 33%
percent and so what we're looking for is
any machine that had an 8
consecutive hours with average of the
idle
capacity was over 10% so if
there's a one-hour spike no problem but
if it was if average for 8 hours increase
it here exceeded 10% then that
machine requires maintenance something
is wrong with that machine. So that is
how we are going to use data to
identify if this complex operation is
working to par and specifically if
these machines require maintenance. Isn't
that exciting? We're going to be using
data to assess the performance of
machines that are so complex like we
don't know anything about in our
engineers we never built these machines
we've never been inside these machines
and yet we will be able to tell using
data whether they can require
maintenance or not
and moreover as you'll see throughout
the section by the way spoiler alert, you
will be able you will see how will be
able to predict the future, we'll be able
to predict if in the coming weeks or in
the coming month the machine will start
under performing and that by on its own
is incredible. That is the power of data
mining and all of that you'll experience
in this section of the course and I look
forward to seeing in the first tutorial.
Let's get this thing started,
and until then, Happy Analyzing.